I think it’s quite hard for us to imagine now
just how exciting the work of John Tradescant
was in the early 17th century.
We’re of course surrounded by museums
on every other street corner
but in his time he was really creating
an entirely new institution,
borrowed from ideas that were current in
Renaissance Italy and elsewhere in Europe
and he had this sense that he
could bring representative samples
of the material world in his garden
and his house
and that would almost be a
microcosm of the entire world.
These objects weren’t common,
they weren’t objects that were already in England,
many of them were brought from
overseas by explorers,
by ship’s captains, by merchants.
There was a whole sense that the world’s stuff
was arriving on the shores of England
and Tradescant was there to set-up a little enclave,
a little place where you could
come and visit and see all these exquisite,
extraordinary unusual things.
And they weren’t just the things that
we already have in our lives.
There was a sense in which there
was still a magic about them.
There was a correspondence between some of
these objects and some things in us
- that walnuts looked like brains,
that bloodstone looked like our blood,
and therefore this wasn’t just a museum
of things that were in people’s lives,
it was a museum of the entire world
and one almost pulsing with
the excitement of giving people
insight into the entire universe.
One of the fascinating things about
collections is not only what is in them,
but who’s allowed to see them, who owns them,
who shares in the pleasure and
the knowledge of looking at them.
Broadly speaking, the history of collecting
started at the elites,
started with princes and kings,
and then was broadened out into merchants,
into people who were voyaging abroad making
a career out of being involved in this stuff.
And then eventually that sense in which it
begins to belong to all of us
- that all of us might though public
institutions have access to it.
But there is, behind all that, there’s
always going to be a politics of access,
a politics of who gets to see it,
and even in our own time we can
think of moments when knowledge almost
has been privatised,
where it seems as though we’re interested
in restricting who has access to that collection
- that’s an ongoing theme in being
interested in the history of these objects.